

.. ^- put some space after README.rst

Configuration
=============

.. el:package:: jedi

.. el:function:: jedi:setup
.. el:function:: jedi:ac-setup
.. el:variable:: jedi:complete-on-dot
.. el:variable:: jedi:server-command
   :value: '("python" "JEDI:SOURCE-DIR/jediepcserver.py")
.. el:variable:: jedi:server-args
.. el:variable:: jedi:get-in-function-call-timeout
.. el:variable:: jedi:get-in-function-call-delay
.. el:variable:: jedi:tooltip-method
.. el:variable:: jedi:goto-definition-config
.. el:variable:: jedi:doc-mode
.. el:variable:: jedi:doc-display-buffer
.. el:variable:: jedi:install-imenu


Keybinds
--------

.. el:variable:: jedi:setup-keys
.. el:variable:: jedi:key-complete
   :value: (kbd "<C-tab>")
.. el:variable:: jedi:key-goto-definition
   :value: (kbd "C-.")
.. el:variable:: jedi:key-show-doc
   :value: (kbd "C-c d")
.. el:variable:: jedi:key-related-names
   :value: (kbd "C-c r")


Command
=======

.. el:function:: jedi:stop-server
.. el:function:: jedi:start-dedicated-server
.. el:function:: jedi:complete
.. el:function:: jedi:get-in-function-call
.. el:function:: jedi:goto-definition
.. el:function:: jedi:show-doc

.. el:package:: helm
.. el:function:: helm-jedi-related-names

.. el:package:: anything
.. el:function:: anything-jedi-related-names

.. el:package:: jedi
.. el:function:: jedi:toggle-debug-server


Troubleshooting
===============

Before posting question or bug report in the `issue tracker`_, please
investigate the problem by yourself.  Here is some checklist.

#. You can try Jedi.el without installing it, by running
   ``make tryout`` if you have carton_ installed.  This will
   install requirements for Jedi.el separated from your local setup in
   ``.emacs.d``.  You can also check the configuration file
   tryout-jedi.el_ to see a minimum working configuration.  This is
   the configuration file loaded by ``make tryout``.  If you have
   trouble setting up Jedi.el, compare your configuration file and
   ``tryout-jedi.el``.

   .. _carton: https://github.com/rejeep/carton
   .. _tryout-jedi.el:
      https://github.com/tkf/emacs-jedi/blob/master/tryout-jedi.el

   If you install carton_ in a different place or you don't add it to
   the ``$PATH``, you can call ``make`` like this:
   ``make CARTON=PATH/TO/bin/carton tryout``.
   Typically, ``PATH/TO/bin/carton`` is ``~/.carton/bin/carton``.

   If you are too lazy to go to carton_ site to checkout how to
   install it, here is what you need to do::

     curl -fsSkL https://raw.github.com/rejeep/carton/master/go | sh
     make CARTON=$HOME/.carton/bin/carton tryout

#. To make sure that jedi.el is running correctly, you can
   do ``M-x jedi:show-jedi-version``.  It will show the versions
   of the Python libraries you are using.

   This is least complex way to communicate with the Jedi server.  If
   it doesn't work, rest of Jedi.el functions will not work.

#. To check that :el:symbol:`jedi:setup` is called properly via
   :el:symbol:`python-mode-hook`, run ``M-: jedi-mode RET`` in
   some Python file.  It should return `t`.

#. If you see message "auto-complete-mode is not enabled", you might
   forget to setup auto-complete properly.  Calling
   ``(global-auto-complete-mode t)`` in your Emacs configuration
   after loading auto-complete should solve this problem.

#. It is possible that Jedi's keybind conflicts with keybinds
   of other libraries.  You can check the definition of keybind
   by ``<f1> k C-c d`` (or ``C-h`` instead of ``<f1>``), for example.
   This one should show the help for :el:symbol:`jedi:show-doc`.

   If you find other command using the keybind, you can
   change it by using :el:symbol:`jedi:key-show-doc`, etc.
   See: :el:symbol:`jedi:setup-keys`.

#. If you have trouble setting keybinds, make sure that
   ``(require 'jedi)`` is *not* called anywhere before the line
   ``(setq jedi:setup-keys t)``.

   To check that keybind setup works, do ``M-: jedi-mode-map RET``.
   It should return something like the following (formatted):

   .. sourcecode:: cl

      (keymap (3 keymap (100 . jedi:show-doc))
              (67108910 . jedi:goto-definition)
              (C-tab . jedi:complete))

   Note that using ``(require 'jedi)`` is *not* recommended way
   to configure Jedi.el because it slows down your Emacs startup [#]_.
   If you use package.el or el-get to install Jedi.el, there should
   be no need for adding ``(require 'jedi)`` to your configuration.
   See: :el:symbol:`jedi:setup-keys`.

.. [#] But if you know what you are doing ``(require 'jedi)`` can be a
       good choice.  For example, this way is faster to open the first
       Python file in an Emacs session.


Changelog
=========

v0.1.2 (WIP)
------------

- Add imenu support (see :el:symbol:`jedi:install-imenu`).
  Currently it is not on by default as it needs developmental version
  of Jedi_.
- Add :el:symbol:`jedi:goto-definition-config` configurable option.
- Jedi.el now pools server instances.
  So, for example, you can create buffer-local :el:symbol:`jedi:server-args`
  to setup project-specific Jedi server (issue-28_).
- Do not expand common part when completing on inserting dot using
  :el:symbol:`jedi:dot-complete`.
- Strip off newlines from candidate summary.  This prevents
  popup to be disrupted when showing candidates summary
  containing newlines (e.g., ``json.__all__``).

.. _issue-28: https://github.com/tkf/emacs-jedi/issues/28

v0.1.1
------

- Add experimental "full-name" support [#fullname]_.
- PR-11_ fixes Makefile for BSD make (thanks, `@goro1080`_!).
- Fix issue-9_: line number sent to the server was shifted when the cursor
  is at the beginning of line.
- Fix issue-10_: get_in_function_call was called in non-python-mode buffer.
- Fix issue-7_: server process was killed unexpectedly.
- Add :el:symbol:`jedi:setup-keys`.  You don't need to manually add
  Jedi commands to :el:symbol:`python-mode-map` now.

.. _@goro1080: https://github.com/goro1080

.. _PR-11: https://github.com/tkf/emacs-jedi/pull/11
.. _issue-10: https://github.com/tkf/emacs-jedi/issues/10
.. _issue-9: https://github.com/tkf/emacs-jedi/issues/9
.. _issue-7: https://github.com/tkf/emacs-jedi/issues/7

.. [#fullname] `jedi:get-full-name-*` functions require developmental
   version of Jedi_.
   See also: `Request: Definition.fullname · Issue #61 ·
   davidhalter/jedi <https://github.com/davidhalter/jedi/issues/61>`_

v0.1
----

- PR-8_ adds ELDoc like argument highlighting (thanks, `@syohex`_!).
- PR-2_ adds meta-data in header comment for ELPA (thanks, `@syohex`_!).
- PR-1_ fixes Makefile for newer pip version (thanks, `@L42y`_!).
- First version.

.. _PR-8: https://github.com/tkf/emacs-jedi/pull/8
.. _PR-2: https://github.com/tkf/emacs-jedi/pull/2
.. _PR-1: https://github.com/tkf/emacs-jedi/pull/1

.. _@syohex: https://github.com/syohex
.. _@L42y: https://github.com/L42y
